[DOC] Tempo 2.3 release notes (#3089)
grafana/tempo: docs/sources/tempo/setup/upgrade.md

>**TIP**: You can check your configuration options using the [`status` API endpoint]({{< relref "../api_docs#status" >}}) in your Tempo installation.

## Upgrade to Tempo 2.3

Tempo 2.3 has several considerations for any upgrade:

> * vParquet3 is available as a stable, production-read block format
> * Several configuration parameters have been renamed or removed.

Author: ```suggestion
* vParquet3 is available as a stable, production-read block format
* Configuration option to use Azure SDK v2
* New `defaults` block in Overrides module configuration
* Several configuration parameters have been renamed or removed.
```

For a complete list of changes, enhancements, and bug fixes, refer to the [Tempo 2.3 changelog](https://github.com/grafana/tempo/releases).

> ### Change the block format to vParquet3

Author: ```suggestion
### vParquet3 block format available as a stable option
```

>**TIP**: You can check your configuration options using the [`status` API endpoint]({{< relref "../api_docs#status" >}}) in your Tempo installation.

## Upgrade to Tempo 2.3

Tempo 2.3 has several considerations for any upgrade:

* vParquet3 is available as a stable, production-read block format
* Configuration option to use Azure SDK v2
* New `defaults` block in Overrides module configuration
* Several configuration parameters have been renamed or removed.

For a complete list of changes, enhancements, and bug fixes, refer to the [Tempo 2.3 changelog](https://github.com/grafana/tempo/releases).

### Production-ready vParquet3 block format

> Upgrading to Tempo 2.3 doesn’t modify the Parquet block format. You can use Tempo 2.3 with vParquet2 or vParquet3. vParquet2 remains the default backend for Tempo 2.3; vParquet3 is available as a stable option.

Author: ```suggestion
You can use Tempo 2.3 with vParquet2 or vParquet3.
While vParquet2 remains the default backend for Tempo 2.3, vParquet3 is available as a stable option.

Upgrading to Tempo 2.3 doesn’t modify the Parquet block format. 
```

>**TIP**: You can check your configuration options using the [`status` API endpoint]({{< relref "../api_docs#status" >}}) in your Tempo installation.

## Upgrade to Tempo 2.3

Tempo 2.3 has several considerations for any upgrade:

* vParquet3 is available as a stable, production-read block format
* Configuration option to use Azure SDK v2
* New `defaults` block in Overrides module configuration
* Several configuration parameters have been renamed or removed.

For a complete list of changes, enhancements, and bug fixes, refer to the [Tempo 2.3 changelog](https://github.com/grafana/tempo/releases).

### Production-ready vParquet3 block format

vParquet3 provides improved query performance and [dedicated attribute columns]({{< relref "../operations/dedicated_columns" >}}).

> This block format is required for using structural operators and dedicated attribute columns.

Reviewer: same comment as above

Author: ```suggestion
This block format is required for using dedicated attribute columns.
```

> You can use Tempo 2.3 with vParquet2 or vParquet3.
> While vParquet2 remains the default backend for Tempo 2.3, vParquet3 is available as a stable option.
> 
> Upgrading to Tempo 2.3 doesn’t modify the Parquet block format. 
> 
> vParquet3 provides improved query performance and [dedicated attribute columns]({{< relref "../operations/dedicated_columns" >}}).
> 
> This block format is required for using structural operators and dedicated attribute columns.

Author: ```suggestion
vParquet3 provides improved query performance and [dedicated attribute columns]({{< relref "../operations/dedicated_columns" >}}).

This block format is required for using structural operators and dedicated attribute columns.

While vParquet2 remains the default backend for Tempo 2.3, vParquet3 is available as a stable option. 
Both work with Tempo 2.3.

Upgrading to Tempo 2.3 doesn’t modify the Parquet block format. 
```

{{% admonition type="note" %}}
Tempo 2.2 can’t read data stored in vParquet3.
{{% /admonition %}}

Recommended update process:

> 1. Upgrade your Tempo installation to version 2.3, remaining on vParquet3.
> 2. Verify the upgrade is stable and performs as expected.
> 3. [Change the block format to vParquet3]({{< relref "../configuration/parquet" >}}).

Author: ```suggestion
1. Upgrade your Tempo installation to version 2.3, remaining on vParquet3.
2. Verify the upgrade is stable and performs as expected. If you notice any issues, you can downgrade to version 2.2, and data remains readable.
3. [Change the block format to vParquet3]({{< relref "../configuration/parquet" >}}).
```

> If you notice any issues, you can immediately downgrade to Tempo 2.2. All your data remains readable.

Author: This statement seems to conflict with the note on line 41. Should this actually be downgrade to vParquet2 instead of Tempo 2.2?
```suggestion
If you notice any issues, you can immediately downgrade to vParquet2. All your data remains readable.
```

Reviewer: If, on step 2 they notice issues they can downgrade to 2.2 and data will remain readable

If they notice issues on step 3 then they will have vp3 blocks and cannot downgrade to 2.2 w/o data loss

Author: Thank you. I've updated the information.

### Use Azure SDK v2

If you are using Azure storage, we recommend using the v2 SDK, [azure-sdk-for-go](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go).
You can use the `use_v2_sdk` configure option for switching.

For more information, refer to the [Storage block configuration example documentation]({{< relref "../configuration#storage-block-configuration-example" >}}).

### New `defaults` block in Overrides module configuration

> The Overrides module has a new `defaults` block for configuring global or per-tenant settings.

Reviewer: @mapno any flavor to add here? do we have plans with this config format change?

>**TIP**: You can check your configuration options using the [`status` API endpoint]({{< relref "../api_docs#status" >}}) in your Tempo installation.

## Upgrade to Tempo 2.3

Tempo 2.3 has several considerations for any upgrade:

* vParquet3 is available as a stable, production-read block format
* Configuration option to use Azure SDK v2
* New `defaults` block in Overrides module configuration
* Several configuration parameters have been renamed or removed.

For a complete list of changes, enhancements, and bug fixes, refer to the [Tempo 2.3 changelog](https://github.com/grafana/tempo/releases).

### Production-ready vParquet3 block format

vParquet3 provides improved query performance and [dedicated attribute columns]({{< relref "../operations/dedicated_columns" >}}).

This block format is required for using dedicated attribute columns.

While vParquet2 remains the default backend for Tempo 2.3, vParquet3 is available as a stable option. 
Both work with Tempo 2.3.

Upgrading to Tempo 2.3 doesn’t modify the Parquet block format. 

{{% admonition type="note" %}}
Tempo 2.2 can’t read data stored in vParquet3.
{{% /admonition %}}

Recommended update process:

> 1. Upgrade your Tempo installation to version 2.3, remaining on vParquet3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Upgrade your Tempo installation to version 2.3, remaining on vParquet2.
```

Author: good catch!
